The test we have put together that relies upon mocking the Stripe client definitely works.
However, I thought it would be fun to take a look at an alternative way of putting this test together,
and in this alternate way, we're going to allow in the test, environment or route handler to talk
directly to the real Stripe API.
And so this will ensure that we are really creating a charge with all the correct values and that stripe
is actually successfully creating it for us.
Now this really is optional.
I'm really just going to show you this alternative approach, and it's really up to you which approach
you want to use.
Although I will say it is kind of an either or you're going to either use this mock approach or you're
going to use this more realistic way that I'm about to show you.
The downside to the realistic approach is that these tests are going to take a little bit longer to
run because we do have to make a request to the real Stripe API.
Okay.
So enough of that.
Let's take a look at how we would put this together.
The first thing we would want to do is make sure that we remove our stripe.
Mock We don't want to mock out that client anymore.
We want to use the real Stripe API.
So to remove that at the very top of our test file, I will remove the just mock statement.
And then inside of my MOX directory I'm going to rename that stripe file to stripe.
It's old.
So the dot.
Hold on there.
Just.
Just changes the extension, just so we do not accidentally load up that file.
Okay.
Next up, we need to make sure that our local test copy or the test instance of the Stripe client we
create has access to our Stripe API key.
Remember that we did set up a Kubernetes secret to store our key, but that secret is only accessible
inside of our Kubernetes cluster, and our tests are running outside of the cluster.
So in our tests are running, we do not have access to the key.
Now, ideally, we would store this key inside of an environment variable on your local machine.
However, setting up environment variables is very different depending upon your operating system and
even what shell you use.
So ideally you would set this up as an environment variable, but I will leave that as an exercise to
you.
And instead you and I are just going to cheat.
We're going to directly set the environment or the Stripe API key inside of our test setup file.
Very similar to how we set some other environment variables inside of here.
Right above the be for all statement.
I'm going to define Stripe.
Key and then I'm going to assign my API key to that variable.
So as a reminder, you can get that from the Stripe dashboard by going to developers and then API keys
and you'll see the secret key right there.
That's the one that we want to use.
So I'll paste that in like so.
You'll notice that we are not placing that environment variable next to all the others.
The reason for that is that we have to define this API key as soon as possible because it's going to
be used the instant that we first require in these scripts file inside of our SCSI directory.
Gary going to save that file and then close it.
So now.
Whenever we run our test suite and we run that test right here.
So our success case test, when we make our request, that's going to reach out to the real Stripe API.
We are still making some expectations right here.
However, that is assuming that we are working with a mock function.
So we're going to delete all those expectations and we now need to figure out some other way to reach
out to the Stripe API and make sure that we actually are creating a chart with all the correct attributes.
Because again, that is the whole goal of this test.
We want to make sure that a charge was created.
Now that is going to be just a little bit challenging.
So let me show you a diagram just to summarize what we have to do and help you understand why it is
kind of a challenging process.
Okay.
So in this diagram, we've got our test file, we've got our route handler and the Stripe API.
So inside of our test file, we are going to more or less make a request over to this route handler.
We'll include a token and some order ID.
That handler is going to run, and then at some point in time it's going to reach out to the real Stripe
API.
It'll provide some token, some amount, some currency for a charge to be created.
Then the Stripe API is going to immediately return some details about the charge that was just made.
So these details about the charge that was just created, that is what we would love to get access to
inside of our test file, because then we could write out some expectations and make sure that the charge
was created.
That was created as the correct amount, as the correct.
Who knows what else made the correct date or something like that.
In other words, we would really like to get information about this charge into our test file so we
could write out some expectations.
But right now, our route handler does not return any information about the charge that was created.
That does not happen right now.
Of course, we could very easily change that, without a doubt back inside of our handler.
So here's Newt's.
Here's to recreate the church.
We could definitely take some information about the church that was made and then send it back to whoever
made this request.
And then inside of a request or excuse me, inside of our test file, we can receive that information
and make sure that the church was made has some correct attributes.
But if we did that, we would be changing the implementation of our code just to better suit our test.
And that is usually a really bad sign.
We usually do not want to make any changes to our code just to make it easier.
Easier to write out some very particular test.
So rather than trying to take this information about the charge that was created and forward it back
over to the test file, we are going to figure out a different way to do this.
We're going to figure out a different way to make sure that our test file can get some details and make
sure that the charge was created has the correct properties.
So how are we going to do that?
Well, let's take another look at the Stripe API.
Back at the Stripe API documentation again.
This is at docs API charges.
We took a look at the creative charge endpoint.
There is another endpoint to retrieve a charge.
So this will get information about a charge that has been created.
But we have to provide the ID of the charge.
And once again, we currently are not really able to communicate any information about the charge itself
from the root handler to the test file.
And it's unlikely that we will ever change that.
So unfortunately, this retrieval charge, End Point, is not very helpful.
But there is another one that we might be able to use if we get just a little bit clever.
There's an end point of list, all charges.
By default, this will give us the previous ten charges that have been created, and we could increase
that up to 100 if we wanted to.
So here's my idea.
We're going to have our test file, make this request.
The handler will send that off to Stripe.
We'll get the response from Stripe back, and eventually the root handler will send back a message of
success.
True to our test file.
After we get that success back, we're then going to have our test itself reach out to the Stripe API.
We're going to request a list of the ten most recent charges that have been created.
It will say, give me a list of the ten.
Most recent charges.
The Stripe API is going to respond with that list of ten charges.
So list of ten most recent.
And then inside of our test file, we're going to take a look at those ten most recent charges and we're
going to make sure.
That there was one charge that has the what looks like the correct set of properties.
So perhaps it has maybe some correct token, some correct currency or something like that.
Now this would definitely work.
But remember, the token and the currency are always going to be the same for every single test run.
So we could potentially be taking a look at some data inside this list of ten most recent charges that
is stale or belongs to some tests that we ran, say, some minutes ago.
So we need to make sure that whenever we create this chart, there's some unique identifying information
inside of it that we can use to identify that charge inside this list of ten most recent charges inside
of our test file.
So how are we going to get some unique information inside there?
Well, we're going to use that currency.
Remember that inside of our test file we are creating the order that we are trying to purchase.
Right now the order is hardcoded to be 20 USD.
So instead of using a hardcoded value of $20, we're going to instead randomly generate a price for
the order instead.
So we will randomly generate a price, assign it to the order, and then when that root handler makes
the request to purchase or create the charge, we will see that randomly generated amount inside there.
So it'll be like some amount like that.
Then when we get back our list of ten most recent charges, we can try to find a charge.
With that amount.
So some amount of 9 to 2, blah, blah, blah.
And if we find a charge in the list of charges with that amount, that means that we must have successfully
created the charge inside the root handler.
And at no point in time will we have had to change any code or return change the return value of the
root handler just to better suit our test.
Okay.
So I know this entire setup is kind of complicated, but again, I just want to show you this alternate
approach.
Let's take a pause right here and implement this in the next video.